HDS Content - Adding Writing Guidelines and Writing Style (#2576)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/content/writing-style/index.md

---

> title: Writing Style

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Writing style
```

caption: How HashiCorp structures writing, in a clear concise manner.
description: How HashiCorp structures writing, in a clear concise manner.

> previewImage: assets/illustrations/content/writing-guidelines.jpg

Reviewer 2: Just noting this needs to be updated. I know you were soliciting feedback from folks but just to make sure it isn't forgotten about.

---

Generally, HashiCorp follows the [2020 AP Stylebook](https://www.apstylebook.com/ap_stylebook) rules and guidelines, unless HashiCorp specific style is indicated.

## Capitalization

### Headings and labels

Use sentence-case for titles, headings, labels, links, and buttons. Use title case for proper nouns and when referring to products (e.g., Nomad).

!!! Do

![Showing a title with sentence-case](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-capitlization-header-do.png)

> ![Showing an input with a label using sentence-case and title case for a proper noun](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-capitlization-input-do.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![An input with the label "Maximum TTL".](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-capitlization-input-do.png)
```

![Showing a link using sentence-case](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-capitlization-link-do.png)

!!!

!!! Dont

![Showing a title with capital-case](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-capitlization-header-dont.png)

![Showing an input with a label using title case](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-capitlization-input-dont.png)

![Showing a link using sentence-case](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-capitlization-link-dont.png)

!!!

### Feature names

Avoid capitalizing feature names or internal constructs as proper nouns.

!!! Do

Terraform Cloud includes a private module registry.

A plan represents the execution plan of a run.

Enable a Secrets Engine in Vault

We’ll use the Vault namespaces feature.

!!!

!!! Dont

Terraform Cloud includes a Private Module Registry.

A Plan represents the execution plan of a Run.

Enable a secrets engine in Vault

We’ll use the Vault Namespaces feature.

!!!

> **Capitalization rules for UI elements**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Typically you will want to capitalize site or UI elements or sections when referring to them in content if they are capitalized in the UI:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Capitalize site section or UI elements when referring to them in content if they are capitalized in the UI:
```

> “You can set up module sharing from the Site Administration area of a Terraform Enterprise instance. The Registry subsection allows an organization to be chosen to which your current organization’s private module registry will be shared.”

Reviewer 4: Should this be in a "Do" style

Author: I thought about this, but the way the page has been structured is do and don't are comparative. This would break pattern, but maybe overthinking it here.

> **Exceptions**: Some terms may seem like they wouldn’t be capitalized, but the Education team has given reasoning for their capitalization:

Reviewer 4: Is there a link to any documentation from the Education team for background on this?

- Terraform Registry
- Terraform Stacks
- Raft algorithm
- Vault Agent
- Vault Proxy
- Boundary Client Agent / Client Agent (when referring to the Boundary Client Agent)
- Terraform Plugin Framework
- Nomad Autoscaler
- The Infrastructure Cloud
- Infrastructure Lifecycle Management
- Security Lifecycle Management

> The general capitalization guidance (feature names should not be capitalized unless it can be used as a stand alone product) applies when writing content about new features as well.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
General capitalization guidance (feature names should not be capitalized unless used as standalone products) also applies when writing content about new features.
```

Author: Yeah, I think I'm just going to remove this section since it seems repetitive.

## Grammar

### Use “you” for the user

Directly addressing the user as "you" conveys the content in a more personal and informal way.

!!! Do

Terraform Cloud’s API lets you create workspaces without a VCS connection.

!!!

!!! Dont

Terraform Cloud’s API allows one to create workspaces without a VCS connection.

!!!

### Use “we” for HashiCorp

Use “we” to describe recommendations by HashiCorp. Our language should never try to hedge or evade responsibility for the guidance we’re providing.

!!! Do

We recommend enabling SSO to...

!!!

!!! Dont

It is a recommendation to enable SSO to...

!!!

### Active voice

> Use active voice whenever possible.

Author: I added a slight explanation (thanks for the reference) to help explain this section a little more.

!!! Do

Terraform has a provider framework to leverage this behavior.

We recommend configuring VCS access when first setting up an organization.

Terraform has a provider framework to leverage this behavior.

Next, Kubernetes will register the service.

!!!

!!! Dont

To hook into this behavior, a provider framework has been built into Terraform.

It is recommended to configure VCS access when first setting up an organization.

To hook into this behavior, a provider framework has been built into Terraform.

Next, the service will be registered.

!!!

### Use simple present tense

Don't avoid the imperative if you're telling someone to do something.

!!! Do

> Run the command `foo.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run the command `foo`.
```

!!!

!!! Dont

> You will be running the command `foo.`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You will be running the command `foo`.
```

!!!

### Uncommon acronyms

> The first time you use an acronym or abbreviation, include the abbreviated word in parentheses. Subsequent mentions can use the acronym by itself. This does not apply to common acronyms like ID, IP, or API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first time an acronym or abbreviation is used, include the abbreviated word in parentheses. Subsequent mentions can use the acronym by itself. This does not apply to common acronyms like ID, IP, or API.
```

!!! Do

This will set the Subject Alternate Name (SAN) on the certification. The SAN is used to tell clients...

!!!

!!! Dont

This will set the SAN on the certification. The SAN is used to tell clients...

!!!

### Consistent terminology

When labeling buttons, use the format [Verb + Noun] wherever possible. For example:  Add cluster, etc. “Add” and “Create” are frequently used. The general guidelines for their use are as follows:

- **Create/Delete**: Used when a new entity is produced or destroyed in the system. Example create/delete a project (the project didn’t exist before/will no longer exist).
- **Add/Remove**: Used when a new relationship or dependency between existing objects is produced or destroyed. Example: Add/Remove a user to/from a project (both the user and the project already existed and will continue to exist, but the relationship itself is established or dissolved).

> !!! Do

Reviewer 2: [question] Would it be helpful to show this in an actual UI context? I found it a bit confusing to understand the goal of this content when it's all text. Some type of stylization might help to differentiate the description content in the block with the UI element

“Create cluster” or “Delete cluster”

Add user to organization

!!!

!!! Dont

“Create cluster” on a button and “Deploy cluster” on the resulting dialog

Using “remove” and “delete” or “create” and “add” interchangeably

!!!

For actions within an object, use the icon (when possible), the verb and the noun that will be affected.

!!! Do

“Edit project” or “View Project”

> ![A menu with two actions in it with icons](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-menu-actions-do.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![A menu with the actions "Edit project" paired with a pencil icon and "View project" paired with an eye icon.](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-menu-actions-do.png)
```

!!!

!!! Dont

> Miss the object that the user is doing the action. View what?

Reviewer 2: [suggestion] This is somewhat informal, what do you think of this? It's a bit more wordy, but seems more clear to me.

```suggestion
Don't leave out the name of the object or element that an action applies to. In this case it is not clear what is being viewed.
```

> ![A menu with two actions in it, with no icons](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-menu-actions-dont.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![A menu with the actions "Edit name" and "View" and no icons.](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-menu-actions-dont.png)
```

!!!

When editing an object, use “Save” for the action on the page. When applying another action, use an imperative, present tense verb.

!!! Do

E.g. Edit organization. Action: Save organization

> ![A modal that has a form to edit an organization](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-save-do.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![A modal that has a form to edit an organization. The title is "Edit organization name" and the save button is "Save organization".](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-save-do.png)
```

E.g. Invite users. Action: Invite users.

> ![A form to invite users by inputting their emails](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-save-do.png)

Reviewer 3: Issue: this image is the same as the previous one right now.
<img width="529" alt="Screenshot 2024-11-25 at 5 25 19 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9f67541c-27db-41a6-a18f-ccce9e69ef19">

> ![A form to invite users by inputting their emails](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-save-do.png)

Author: Fixed.

!!!

!!! Dont

E.g. Edit service principal. Action: Apply changes 

> ![A form to edit a service principal with the wrong label in the primary button](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-apply-dont.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![A form to edit a service principal. The title is "Edit service principal" and the save button is "Apply changes".](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-apply-dont.png)
```

!!!

## Punctuation

### Serial/Oxford comma

Use the serial (“Oxford”) comma in lists.

!!! Do

Choose your cluster tier, size, and network.

!!!

!!! Dont

Choose your cluster tier, size and network.

!!!

### Exclamation points

Avoid using exclamation points. Only use it if you’re connecting with understood, strong reader emotion. 

!!! Do

Achieving this centralization is a huge improvement in security posture, but it’s not the end of the journey. This is because applications don't keep secrets! It turns out, most applications do a worse job keeping secrets than our close friends.

!!!

!!! Dont

We are excited to announce Vault 1.3!

!!!

### Percentages

> Use the % symbol instead of spelling out "percent."  Correct: 50%

Reviewer 2: This seems a bit more in line with how we usually write these types of statements.

```suggestion
Use the % symbol instead of spelling out "percent"; e.g. , `50%`.
```

> ### Ranges and spans

Reviewer: All other headings use the name of the punctuation mark, so this should probably be aligned to that. 
```suggestion
### Hyphens and dashes
```

Author: Renamed this to just "Dashes"

> ### Ranges and spans

Reviewer: I'd love to see visual examples of these two sections.

Use a hyphen (-) to indicate a range or span of numbers.

> - It takes 20-30 days.

Reviewer: [blocking] Are we sure this is the right guidance? From some brief Google searching, I believe en dash is actually what we want for numerical ranges. 

From Gemini (with relevant resources quoting APA 2020):
> According to APA 2020 style, a hyphen (-) is used to connect words within a compound adjective, while a dash (either an en dash "–" or an em dash "—") is used to indicate a range of numbers or to set off a parenthetical element within a sentence, with the em dash being longer and signifying a stronger pause than the en dash; essentially, a hyphen is shorter and used for compound words, while a dash is longer and used for interruptions or clarifications within a sentence.

Author: Good catch, ill make this update. We should also update our time component and related docs.

![A link with text "Edit Encryption Key".](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-capitlization-link-dont.png)

!!!

### Feature names

Avoid capitalizing feature names or internal constructs as proper nouns.

!!! Do

Terraform Cloud includes a private module registry.

A plan represents the execution plan of a run.

Enable a Secrets Engine in Vault

We’ll use the Vault namespaces feature.

!!!

!!! Dont

Terraform Cloud includes a Private Module Registry.

A Plan represents the execution plan of a Run.

Enable a secrets engine in Vault

We’ll use the Vault Namespaces feature.

!!!

### Capitalization for direction

When referring to specific UI elements or sections within the application, use the same capitalization of the element itself.

!!! Do

You can set up module sharing from the Site Administration area of a Terraform Enterprise instance. The Registry subsection allows an organization to be chosen to which your current organization’s private module registry will be shared.

!!!

#### Exceptions for feature names

The following terms should always use title case:

- Terraform Registry
- Terraform Stacks

> - Raft algorithm

Reviewer 5: Shouldn't this be:

```suggestion
- Raft Algorithm
```

!!!

##### Edit and View

Use when editing or viewing an entity, e.g. "Edit project" or "View project," where the project will be modified for accuracy or previewed for quality assurance.

!!! Do

![A menu with the actions "Edit project" paired with a pencil icon and "View project" paired with an eye icon.](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-menu-actions-do.png)

!!!

!!! Dont

This is missing the object (noun) the user is doing via the action (verb). What is the user going to "View"?

![A menu with the actions "Edit name" and "View" and no icons.](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-menu-actions-dont.png)

!!!

When editing an object, use "Save" for the action label. When applying another action, use an imperative, present-tense verb.

!!! Do

![A modal that has a form to edit an organization. The title is "Edit organization name" and the save button is "Save organization".](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-save-do.png)

> ![A form to invite users by inputting their emails](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-invite-do.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![A form to invite users by inputting their emails. The title is "Invite users" and the submit button is "Invite users".](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-invite-do.png)
```

!!!

!!! Dont

![A form to edit a service principal. The title is "Edit service principal" and the save button is "Apply changes".](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-apply-dont.png)

!!!

## Punctuation

### Serial/Oxford comma

Use the [serial (“Oxford”)](https://www.grammarly.com/blog/punctuation-capitalization/what-is-the-oxford-comma/) comma in lists.

!!! Do

Choose your cluster tier, size, and network.

!!!

!!! Dont

Choose your cluster tier, size and network.

!!!

### Exclamation points

Avoid using exclamation points. Only use it if you’re connecting with understood, strong reader emotion. 

!!! Do

Achieving this centralization is a huge improvement in security posture, but it’s not the end of the journey. This is because applications don't keep secrets! It turns out, most applications do a worse job keeping secrets than our close friends.

!!!

!!! Dont

We are excited to announce Vault 1.3!

!!!

### Percentages

Use the % symbol instead of spelling out "percent"; e.g. , `50%`.

> ![A card showing usage data, along side its status and name](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-punctuation-percentage.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![A card showing usage data, along side its status and name. It includes the text "12%" with an up arrow icon to inform users the requests have increased.](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-punctuation-percentage.png)
```

### Dashes

Use an en dash (–) to indicate a range or span of numbers.

> ![Text saying "Event dates Sep 20 – Sep 24, 2020"](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-punctuation-en-dashes.png)

Reviewer 5: There should not be regular spaces before and after the en dash
```suggestion
![Text saying "Event dates Sep 20–Sep 24, 2020"](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-punctuation-en-dashes.png)
```

Reviewer 3: Since its just normal text, you can just have the alt text be what it says.

```suggestion
![Event dates Sep 20–Sep 24, 2020](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-punctuation-en-dashes.png)
```

!!!

!!! Dont

This is missing the object (noun) the user is doing via the action (verb). What is the user going to "View"?

![A menu with the actions "Edit name" and "View" and no icons.](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-menu-actions-dont.png)

!!!

When editing an object, use "Save" for the action label. When applying another action, use an imperative, present-tense verb.

!!! Do

![A modal that has a form to edit an organization. The title is "Edit organization name" and the save button is "Save organization".](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-save-do.png)

![A form to invite users by inputting their emails](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-invite-do.png)

!!!

!!! Dont

![A form to edit a service principal. The title is "Edit service principal" and the save button is "Apply changes".](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-consistent-termonology-CTA-apply-dont.png)

!!!

## Punctuation

### Serial/Oxford comma

> Use the [serial (“Oxford”)](https://www.grammarly.com/blog/punctuation-capitalization/what-is-the-oxford-comma/) comma in lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [serial (“Oxford”) comma](https://www.grammarly.com/blog/punctuation-capitalization/what-is-the-oxford-comma/) in lists.
```

### Percentages

> Use the % symbol instead of spelling out "percent"; e.g. , `50%`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the % symbol instead of spelling "percent," e.g., `50%`.
```

### Percentages

> Use the % symbol instead of spelling "percent," e.g., `50%`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Use the % symbol instead of writing “percent,” e.g., “50%.”
```

Reviewer 5: "50%" is just a piece of written text, not a piece of code or a value used within code, so it should not be marked with backticks.

> ![A card showing usage data, along side its status and name. It includes the text "12%" with an up arrow icon to inform users the requests have increased.](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-punctuation-percentage.png)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
![A card showing usage data, alongside its status and name. It includes the text “12%” and an up arrow icon to inform users the requests have increased.](/assets/content/writing-style/writing-style-punctuation-percentage.png)
```
